---
title: Introduction
permalink: /introduction
---

# Introduction

The security bundle allows you to create firewalls that control access to your controllers, and 
configure encryption algorithms for your application.

- Automate request authentication
- Restrict access to routes by attached roles.
- Provide services to authenticate and fetch resources (users, accounts, etc).
- Control entity password encryption


# How It Works

When a request is made, a pre controller listener is fired and checks the requested route.  If the 
requested route matches one of the regular expression routes configured in a firewall setting, then 
the request is passed over to the firewall handler for authentication.

The firewall handler will authenticate the request and fetch a resource for the account accessing 
the route from the database or persistence layer.

If the firewall is stateless, all of this will happen on each request.  If the firewall is not 
stateless, the account resource for each firewall is saved in the current session, under its own 
context.  So you can have a session with multiple areas at a time, and the data for each session is 
isolated.

You can think of a firewall as a security realm.

Roles are used to define access to each firewall.  The roles must be attached to the account 
resource returned from the provider.  Each account resource can have one or more roles assigned in 
an array.  You are free to create your own access roles.


# Security Context

Whether your session has state or not, you can access the authenticated resource from within any 
request scope, using the `security.context` service.

```
const authToken = container.get('security.context').getAuthToken();
const authResource = container.get('security.context').getAuthResource();
```

The resource is the user.  The resource is attached to the token.

### Request Object

The CongaJS request object has a reference to the security context instance in its `conga` namespace.

You can access it from the request object: `request.conga.security`.

### View Data

The view data has a reference to the security context instance in its `conga` namespace.  

You can access it from the template context data: `conga.security`.

##### TwigJS View Engine Example

```twig
{% if conga.security and conga.security.authenticated %}
    <p>You are logged in as {{ conga.security.credentials.login }}
{% endif %}
```