---
title: Encryption
permalink: /encryption
---

# Encryption

Encryptors get mapped to a class path and instruct the system on how to encrypt and compare secure 
keys for that class.

## config.yml

```
security:

    encryption:
    
        my_user:
            path: conga-security:security/user/AuthUser
            
            algorithm: bcrypt
            saltRounds: 50
            
            salt: application-wide-salt
            pepper: application-wide-pepper
            
            encode_as_base64: true
            
            fields:
                salt: secretSalt
            
            methods:
                salt: getSecretSalt
```

No matter what algorithm you use, they all support some common configuration options.

`algorithm` - Specifies which encryption algorithm to use.  It must be a registered algorithm.

`salt` - Allows you to provide an application wide salt to all strings before they get encrypted.

`pepper` - Allows you to provide an application wide pepper to all strings before they get 
encrypted.

`encode_as_base64` - Specifies whether you want the encrypted value to be base64 encoded also.

`fields` - Allows you to map values from resource fields.  If `fields.salt` is provided, that value 
is used instead of `salt`. 

`methods` - Allows you to map values from resource methods. If any methods return a value, that 
value is mapped into `fields` automatically for you.

# Algorithms

There are different algorithms you can use.  Algorithms are defined as a service definition and 
tagged as a security encryptor.  

You can define your own algorithms as you wish.  Your encryptor should inherit from 
`conga-security:security/encryption/AbstractEncryptor` to make things easier, but it doesn't have 
to.  You just need to provide an `encrypt` and `compare` method.

Below are a few taken from the encryption.yml file packaged with this module.

```
    security.encryption.plain_text:
        constructor: conga-security:security/encryption/PlainTextEncryptor
        tags:
            - { name: security.encryptor, algorithm: text }
    
    security.encryption.md5:
        constructor: conga-security:security/encryption/CryptoHmacEncryptor
        arguments: ["md5"]
        tags:
            - { name: security.encryptor, algorithm: md5 }
    
    security.encryption.sha512:
        constructor: conga-security:security/encryption/CryptoHmacEncryptor
        arguments: ["sha512"]
        tags:
            - { name: security.encryptor, algorithm: sha512 }
```

There are only a hand full of algorithms supported by default:

- text
- bcrypt
- sha256
- sha512
- md5

There is a common library you can use for Hmac encryption, which can use any supported algorithm.  
sha256, sha512, and md5 use it.

## Algorithm Configuration

Each algorithm may allow you to provide additional configuration.  This configuration can be mapped 
fields or static values.

The `hmac encryptors` want you to specify a secret.  That secret can be application wide, specified 
in the config, or it can be read from a resource. 

The `bcrypt encryptor` wants you to specify a salt or saltRounds.

The entire configuration is passed to the encryptor when it is instantiated.

For example:
```
security:

    encryption:
    
        my_user:
            path: my-bundle:model/User
            algorithm: sha512
            pepper: 123456!!!
            encode_as_base64: true
            methods:
                salt: getSalt
                secret: getSecret
```

The above configuration says to use the `sha512` encryption algorithm, but apply a pepper, salt, 
and a secret to it. The salt and the secret live on the resource itself, so each one is unique.

If your password was `test` and the user salt was `123`, then the actual value that gets encrypted 
would be `123456!!!123test`.

# Encryptor As A Service

If you don't want to register an encryptor, you can define it as a service and specify the service 
id.

## Encryption Service

There is a service provided, `security.encryption` that will handle this for any mapped instance 
type.

```
container.get('security.encryption').encrypt(instance, 'something to encrypt').then(encrypted => {

    console.log('the encrypted value is', encrypted);

});
```

# Encryption Command

There is a command that you can use to encrypt and compare an encrypted string.

```
$ conga security:encrypt --path conga-security:security/user/AuthUser --value encrypt_this --compare already_encrypted
```

You can run help on the command to read about its options.

```
$ conga security:encrypt --help
```
